In the last video we're talking about macro details such as placing our buildings and trees and paths.
This video we're to mount micro details when it comes to polishing the look and feel of our game.
And that's going to include things like laying down some grass and looking to see where we can add a
little bit of motion in our world and generally tweaking and tuning things down at the micro level.
So I'm going to go straight away to the asset store find my good old favorite standard assets click
on import and then from here I'm going to find a little bit of 2D billboards to use for my grass use
my grass fronds.
I think they're going to be cold.
So I'm going to deselect everything and just have a look down here when I find environments.
There it is environments just close up speed free under terrain assets.
There we go.
So we want these billboard textures and I might as well bring in these other surface textures just in
case I want to play around with that a little bit more as well.
Click import.
That should put it down into my standard assets folder.
There it is terrains and we've got our grass fronds.
You may have been through this approach before I tend to do this in a few of our courses I think because
I love terrain I love placing down grass on a bit of a fan of doing it.
So if you know how to do it already go ahead and jump in as little mini challenge go and create your
grass and place it around.
But I'm going to show you how I go about doing this.
They click on you to then click on the paint detail scroll on down until you find the Edit Details button
click on that we're going to add a grass texture.
Now I've already got my folder open here with my grass front I'm going to drag that over into the detail
texture area.
We can play around with all these values.
I find it easier to click add and then paint.
So make sure you select it on your grass front paint something in the scene.
There we go.
Doesn't look all that great.
I want to change the color and change the size with it already placed in the world.
Now if I double click on this I can change some of these values and that will change what I see what's
already being placed in the world so to make him a little bit smaller I think.
Maximum height minimum height maximum with the minimum width.
And there we go change the color of it maybe make them a little bit of a purple greenish blue kind of
thing and just you can generally play around with the healthy color as well as the dry color.
And we go make a sort of a bluey green kind of look to it and you can change the noise Fred so that
you get a little bit of variation which I think is important.
Have the not looking exactly the same click on Apply.
Great job done now I can go and paint these all around in the world before I do that.
I'll show you that we can add another one so add grass texture and I can use the exact same to the billboard.
What is a billboard you might say if you're not familiar with the terminology.
Just means it's a flat.
I mean just exit out of this it means that it is a flat 2D object but as we spin around in the world
it's going to change to face the camera so always looks like those guys are facing the camera.
Despite the fact if we scroll up above them I'll see if I can do that.
You should be out to see that they are just there's some there they're just flat images that are trying
to face the camera no matter where you are.
That's what a billboard is.
OK.
So back to the point I was making before.
If I can get my camera to behave click on paint detail scroll on down I'm going to add a grass texture
I can add the same one and drop that in once again I'm going to click ad then click on the second one
make sure you do that to a click.
Now once again I can go in now.
I just double click on here to do it and I can edit the details of this to give it a different look
to the look that I've got already for the the first cross that I put in the same sense more of a grainy
kind of look and it's nice and huge and we'll make it a little bit of a yellowy feel.
So I might do some of this grass.
It's like pure yellow.
I'll do that right now.
Make some pure yellow grass and we'll pretend this is like a cornfield or something that you can run
through.
So that is how we get variation.
Once again you know I'm a big fan of variation with the minimum amount of assets but maximum amount
of variation for the player within the game.
So there we go.
Created some grass.
I'm going to go ahead now and finish this and place it around in my world in places I think make sense
like at the base of the tree or along the edge of the road to give some detail to my world you might
want to do the same.
If you're adding grass to your world and I will post a video and be back here when I'm done.
Okay I'm back.
I've added a bunch of grass into my level lots and lots I like the busyness the detail that comes along
with adding grass I've tried to be a little bit logical as well I've got the longer grass around the
trees or around the rocks or fences where people wouldn't have stepped on it.
But along the paths I've made it more patchy to say well people have stepped on the grass and the grass
is not there anymore.
So what I've been up to.
OK.
You might also notice that my skybox is a bit different.
I wasn't really happy with it.
So I've gone and added a new skybox just looking at these little details as I go.
How can I make it look more interesting.
It's going to be the nighttime feel to it the skybox so I think that's giving me ideas of how to make
my level more interesting with lights which is something I'll do a little bit of now I'll find my main
directional light.
I think that's in core directional light and it's turn the intensity of that down a little bit.
Just to give this more of a nighttime feel changed the color perhaps to give it more of a bluey Bluey
kind of feel.
Yeah that's not too bad.
I want to go to blue in this and then click on the lighting tab and see if I can find what's being brought
in from my skybox here intensity.
It's not doing a lot.
I can turn all the way down and it's then rely on the lights I'm going to play some point lights throughout
my scene which I think can be quite interesting you can see I've already got a couple in there that
I've brought from one of my other projects I was fiddling around with I've got a bit of light in there
I think I will have some lighting the scene I don't want it to washed out I wanted to have it more of
a you know it's a reasonably well lit well it town at nighttime just to make it all more interesting
with those lights and fire over here you can save a little bit of fire happening so that does bring
me to the next thing I want to show you that I've been doing if I click here I've gone an added the
effects fire in his eyes you run along you can see you've got the particles for this fire I it's really
cool casting some light I could probably increase that I'll just drop the point light underneath my
Camp Fire so you can see here click on point light if you're not sure how to do that well I'll remind
you right click on the camp fire find light and add a point light.
Simple as that.
You know how to do these things.
There we go.
Point Light I might want to make it a little bit brighter so Oh so I need to click on my inspector I
nearly went and fiddle with my overall intensity lighting that gee that Fry is bright but now I need
to click on inspector find the intensity of my fire here make sure it's a fiery kind of color and yeah
I think that's pretty good and change the range maybe there we go.
Nice bright fire.
For all the people to run past and cast shadows very cool.
And as I mentioned before I've got a couple of these other little point lights that are in these.
What would they be called.
Is it got a name.
It's a brassiere.
I thought that was something that ladies wear.
I think that's something different actually a that's a brassiere.
OK.
They may showing how clever I am not so I'm going to increase the intensity a little bit here.
Playing around with is giving a weird kind of shadowy thing here.
I think I'll leave that the weed shadowy thing's not too bad.
I had another one I popped over there so I'm gonna go round and place a few of these point lights in
the world find spots like this lamp he or I can put a light on it maybe live with a light coming out
the window just to give that punching a straight world maybe keep it a bit darker around here because
this is the spooky part of town perhaps.
OK so going to finesse my lighting a little bit more if you haven't finished the lighting in your level
now's a good time to do that so my challenge for you is to finesse your lighting and I'll be back here
in a moment to show you what I've come up with okay I've finished the lighting in my world one thing
I did when clicked on the lighting tab I changed the environment environment lighting from skybox to
gradient so it's a subtle impact but something that gives you a lot of control when you click on gradient.
You can change the different aspects the the lighting influences coming from Sky and Equator and ground
in particular equator if you change that it can have a really large impact on the overall vibe of your
world and the color that's being brought in.
So if you want to give it a tone or a mood you wanna make it a little bit warmer a little bit cooler.
You can do that by playing around in the environment lighting and changing to gradient.
I've also added some particle effects here and there.
I think it's great to add some particles I've added particle you can see the smoke coming out of the
chimney of a house do that in a couple of places.
The flames on top of my fire sources there to give a little bit of logical explanation as to why there
is a light source happening and I've taken that from the Sinti simple effects particle effect pack and
what we're talking about particles.
There's one little trick that I like to do as well to get a bit of motion and a little bit of filler
in the world to give us a little bit of polish and let's have some a little bit of like fairy dust type
particles follow the player around as they run around.
So I've created previously a little particle system that I'm going to give you against this lecture
as a download.
I'm going to drag that into my project now and it's simply called fairy dust particles just import that
yours to use however you like.
That's something that I've created myself.
And if you want to see how it's been created.
Check that out.
Let's see fairy dust particles are going to place these firing into places in game and effects straight
into game effects.
I think the right spot for that.
Okay so fairy dust particles grab that so first of all let's open up our play a prefab and then drag
in the fairy dust particles on top of player.
You can see we've got these kind of little dust particles things floating around and as the player moves.
This is going to follow but leave a trail behind the player.
So it looks like they're in the entire world but they're just in this little volume around the player
here.
And the important thing here is simulation space is set to world.
You can have a look at my other settings if you want to see how I created this.
You can change the color of course if you want to use this yourself in your own world.
I want to make it a little bit of a warmer type color or.
Yeah I think that's pretty good for me make a little bit more yellow with more dust particles as we're
running around in the world.
So let's see the impact of this.
When I click on play now hopefully that has stuck to the player so you can see we've got these little
particles that are floating around swirling in the world might not see your game.
They're reasonably cartoony it suits the nature of my game I think so I quite like it as we're running
around we just see the particles if I zoom out here in the same view you can see that the particles
are around my player but over here they're not in the world.
So kind of looks from the player's perspective like they're in the entire world but we know that they're
just being childish to the player and following the player as a player runs ran.
So in the space of just a couple of lectures we've gone through a whole bunch of things in terms of
placing our buildings and props and making sure that our water looks good and adding particles playing
around with our lighting.
These things they they might take you a day or two to add to your game and so they will take a bit of
time but I think the value of putting them in is enormous because when you get there and show someone
you gaming like hey look I've got combat the guys can shoot there's hit points it's really fun.
See if you can beat my level adding these little bits of Polish and little bits of detail really help
sell that experience.
You don't need to put in a huge amount of time but just getting yourself some nice assets and putting
in a little bit of love I think can make a massive difference to how enjoyable your game is even if
it's in the early prototype stage.
So there we have it.
Hopefully your game is looking great.
As always I'd love to see some screenshots of some videos of it and I'll see you in an upcoming lecture.